Step 1: Set Up the Build Environment

FROM openjdk:11 AS BUILD_IMAGE: This tells Docker to use the openjdk:11 base image as the starting point for this stage. We're giving this stage the name BUILD_IMAGE.

RUN apt update && apt install maven -y: This installs Maven inside the container by running system commands. It updates the package lists and then installs Maven.

RUN git clone ...: This command clones a Git repository from the specified URL. It's grabbing the source code for a project from a GitHub repository named vprofile-project.

RUN cd vprofile-project && git checkout docker && mvn install: These commands navigate into the vprofile-project directory, switch to a specific branch named docker, and then use Maven to build the project (by running mvn install).



Step 2: Create the Final Image

FROM tomcat:9-jre11: This sets up the second part of our Docker image. It's using a different base image (tomcat:9-jre11), which has Tomcat and Java 11 ready to go.

RUN rm -rf /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/*: This removes any existing files from the Tomcat webapps directory. It's like cleaning up the space where we'll put our application.

COPY --from=BUILD_IMAGE ...: This copies the result of the build from the previous BUILD_IMAGE stage into this current stage. It takes the vprofile-v2.war file that was created during the Maven build and places it in the Tomcat webapps directory with a new name (ROOT.war).

EXPOSE 8080: This informs Docker that the container will be listening on port 8080. It doesn't actually open the port, but it's a useful note for anyone looking at the Dockerfile.

CMD ["catalina.sh", "run"]: This specifies the command that should be run when the container starts. It's telling Tomcat to start and run our application using the catalina.sh script.



In simpler terms, this Dockerfile does the following:

In the first stage, it sets up a build environment with Java and Maven, clones a project from GitHub, and builds it using Maven.
In the second stage, it creates a Docker image with Tomcat and Java, removes any old files from the webapps directory, and copies the built vprofile-v2.war file into Tomcat's webapps directory.
It indicates that the container will listen on port 8080, and when the container starts, it runs Tomcat to host our application.
This Dockerfile essentially helps you package your Java web application (vProfile) and its dependencies into a Docker container, making it easy to deploy and run.